Name : Vedant patel
Assignment 1 HTML

1. Are HTML tags and elements the same thing?

--> HTML tags and element are not same thing but they are closely related.Html tags are used to define element within an html documet.
an html element consists of a start tag and end tag are usually written with bracket <> while the content is what appear between them.

2. What are tags and attribut in Html?

--> Tages are use to define element in html document. An Html tag is made up of tag name enclosed in brackets <> on the other hand 
Attributes are used to modify the behavior or appearence of an element and are included in the start tag of the element.

3. What are void elements in HTML?

--> Void elements in HTML are elements that do not require an end tag. They are self-closing and usually represented by a single tag.
Examples of void elements include the 
<br>and many more.

4. What are HTML Entities?

--> HTML entities are special characters that cannot be entered directly into an HTML document. They are represented by entity names 
or entity numbers, and are used to display characters that would otherwise have a special meaning in HTML, such as < and >.

5. What are different types of lists in HTML?

--> There are three types of lists in HTML: ordered lists(ol), unordered lists(ul), and definition lists(dl). Ordered lists use 
numbers or letters to sequence list items, unordered lists use bullet points or other symbols, and definition lists are used to 
define terms and their corresponding definitions.

6. What is the ‘class’ attribute in HTML?

--> The 'class' attribute in HTML is used to define a class for an HTML element. Classes are used to group elements together and 
apply the same style to all elements within the same class.

7. What is the difference between the ‘id’ attribute and the ‘class’ attribute of HTML elements?

--> The 'id' attribute in HTML is used to provide a unique identifier for an element, whereas the 'class' attribute is used to group
 elements together. An 'id' attribute can only be used once within an HTML document, while a 'class' attribute can be used multiple 
times.

8. What are the various formatting tags in HTML?

--> Some common formatting tags in HTML include  for bold text,  for italic text,  for underlined text, and  for 
strikethrough text.

9. How is Cell Padding different from Cell Spacing?

--> Cell padding is the space between the content of a cell and its border, while cell spacing is the space between adjacent cells 
in a table.

10. How can we club two or more rows or columns into a single row or column in an HTML table?

--> This can be done by using the rowspan and colspan attributes. The rowspan attribute specifies the number of rows a cell should 
span, while the colspan attribute specifies the number of columns a cell should span.

11. What is the difference between a block-level element and an inline element?

-->Block-level elements are elements that start on a new line and take up the full width available. Examples include 
 and 
. 
Inline elements are elements that do not start on a new line and only take up as much width as necessary to display their content. 
Examples include  and .

12. How to create a Hyperlink in HTML?

--> To create a hyperlink in HTML, use the  tag with the href attribute to specify the URL of the destination page. 
For example: Link text

13. What is the use of an iframe tag?

-->The iframe tag is used to embed a webpage or other content within another webpage. This is often used to include third-party 
content, such as a YouTube video or a map from Google Maps, on a webpage.

14. What is use of span tag?Explai with example? 

-->The span tag is used to apply inline styling to a small section of text. For example, you might use the span tag in table tag 
in which if you want to merge two row or two coloumn.

15. How to insert a picture into background image of web page?




16.How are active links different from normal links?

-->Active links are links that have been clicked on by the user and are currently being displayed. Normal links are links that
the user has not yet clicked on.

17.What are the diffrent tags to seperate sections of text?

-->There are several tags in HTML that can be used to separate sections of text, including:

<p> for paragraphs.
<h1> to <h6> for headings.
<ul> and <ol> for lists.

18. What is SVG?

-->SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) is a vector graphics format used for creating and displaying images on the web. Unlike raster 
graphics formats like JPEG or PNG, SVG images can be scaled up or down without losing quality.

19. What is difference between HTML and XHTML?

-->HTML and XHTML are both markup languages used to create web pages. The main difference between the two is that XHTML is 
a stricter, more XML-based version of HTML. XHTML requires that all tags be properly nested and closed, and that all tags be 
lowercase.

20. What is logical and physical tags ?

-->Logical tags in HTML are used to describe the structure and meaning of the content, while physical tags are used to define 
how the content should be displayed. For example, the logical tag <h1> is used to indicate that a particular section of text 
is a top-level heading.